---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "confluentcloud_kafka_topic Data Source - terraform-provider-confluentcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# confluentcloud_kafka_topic Data Source

`confluentcloud_kafka_topic` describes a Kafka Topic data source.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "confluentcloud_kafka_topic" "orders" {
  kafka_cluster = confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.basic-cluster.id

  topic_name    = "orders"
  http_endpoint = confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.basic-cluster.http_endpoint

  credentials {
    key    = "<Kafka API Key for confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.basic-cluster>"
    secret = "<Kafka API Secret for confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.basic-cluster>"
  }
}

output "config" {
  value = data.confluentcloud_kafka_topic.orders.config
}

```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

- `kafka_cluster` - (Required String) The ID of the Kafka cluster, for example, `lkc-abc123`.
- `topic_name` - (Required String) The name of the topic, for example, `orders-1`. The topic name can be up to 255 characters in length and can contain only alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores.
- `http_endpoint` - (Required String) The REST endpoint of the Kafka cluster, for example, `https://pkc-00000.us-central1.gcp.confluent.cloud:443`).
- `credentials` (Required Configuration Block) supports the following:
    - `key` - (Required String) The Kafka API Key.
    - `secret` - (Required String) The Kafka API Secret.

-> **Note:** A Kafka API key consists of a key and a secret. Kafka API keys are required to interact with Kafka clusters in Confluent Cloud. Each Kafka API key is valid for one specific Kafka cluster.

!> **Warning:** Terraform doesn't encrypt the sensitive `credentials` value of the `confluentcloud_kafka_topic` data source, so you must keep your state file secure to avoid exposing it. Refer to the [Terraform documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/state/sensitive-data.html) to learn more about securing your state file.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the preceding arguments, the following attributes are exported:

- `id` - (String) The ID of the Kafka topic, in the format `<Kafka cluster ID>/<Kafka Topic name>`, for example, `lkc-abc123/orders-1`.
- `partitions_count` - (Number) The number of partitions to create in the topic. Defaults to `6`.
- `config` - (String Map) The custom topic configurations:
    - `name` - (String) The configuration name, for example, `cleanup.policy`.
    - `value` - (String) The configuration value, for example, `compact`.
