---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster Data Source - terraform-provider-confluentcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# confluentcloud_kafka_cluster Data Source

`confluentcloud_kafka_cluster` describes a Kafka cluster data source. The data source requires the ID of the Kafka cluster (e.g., `lkc-abc123`) and the Environment ID it belongs to (e.g., `env-xyz456`).

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster" "test-basic-cluster" {
  id = "lkc-abc123"
  environment {
    id = "env-xyz456"
  }
}

resource "confluentcloud_service_account" "test-sa" {
  display_name = "app_mgr"
  description = "app_mgr for ${data.confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.test-basic-cluster.display_name}"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

- `id` - (Required String) The ID of the Kafka cluster, for example, `lkc-abc123`.
- `environment` (Required Configuration Block) supports the following:
    - `id` - (Required String) The ID of the Environment that the Kafka cluster belongs to, for example, `env-xyz456`.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the preceding arguments, the following attributes are exported:

- `display_name` - (String) The name of the Kafka cluster.
- `availability` - (String) The availability zone configuration of the Kafka cluster. Accepted values are: `SINGLE_ZONE` and `MULTI_ZONE`.
- `cloud` - (String) The cloud service provider that runs the Kafka cluster. Accepted values are: `AWS`, `AZURE`, and `GCP`.
- `region` - (String) The cloud service provider region where the Kafka cluster is running, for example, `us-west-2`). See [Cloud Providers and Regions](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/regions.html#cloud-providers-and-regions) for a full list of options for AWS, Azure, and GCP.
- `basic` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Basic Kafka cluster.
- `standard` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Standard Kafka cluster.
- `dedicated` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Dedicated Kafka cluster. It supports the following:
    - `cku` - (Required Number) The number of Confluent Kafka Units (CKUs) for Dedicated cluster types. The minimum number of CKUs for `SINGLE_ZONE` dedicated clusters is `1` whereas `MULTI_ZONE` dedicated clusters must have more than `2` CKUs.

-> **Note:** At least one from the `basic`, `standard`, and `dedicated` configuration blocks will be specified.
