---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster Resource - terraform-provider-confluentcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# confluentcloud_kafka_cluster Resource

`confluentcloud_kafka_cluster` provides a Kafka cluster resource that enables creating, editing, and deleting Kafka clusters on Confluent Cloud.

## Example Usage

### Example AWS cluster

```terraform
resource "confluentcloud_environment" "test-env" {
  display_name = "Development"
}

resource "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster" "basic-cluster" {
  display_name = "basic_kafka_cluster"
  availability = "SINGLE_ZONE"
  cloud        = "AWS"
  region       = "us-east-2"
  basic {}

  environment {
    id = confluentcloud_environment.test-env.id
  }
}
```

### Example Azure cluster

```terraform
resource "confluentcloud_environment" "test-env" {
  display_name = "Development"
}

resource "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster" "basic-cluster" {
  display_name = "basic_kafka_cluster"
  availability = "SINGLE_ZONE"
  cloud        = "AZURE"
  region       = "centralus"
  standard {}

  environment {
    id = confluentcloud_environment.test-env.id
  }
}
```

### Example GCP cluster

```terraform
resource "confluentcloud_environment" "test-env" {
  display_name = "Development"
}

resource "confluentcloud_kafka_cluster" "basic-cluster" {
  display_name = "basic_kafka_cluster"
  availability = "MULTI_ZONE"
  cloud        = "GCP"
  region       = "us-central1"
  dedicated {
    cku = 2
  }

  environment {
    id = confluentcloud_environment.test-env.id
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

- `display_name` - (Required String) The name of the Kafka cluster.
- `availability` - (Required String) The availability zone configuration of the Kafka cluster. Accepted values are: `SINGLE_ZONE` and `MULTI_ZONE`.
- `cloud` - (Required String) The cloud service provider that runs the Kafka cluster. Accepted values are: `AWS`, `AZURE`, and `GCP`.
- `region` - (Required String) The cloud service provider region where the Kafka cluster is running, for example, `us-west-2`. See [Cloud Providers and Regions](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/regions.html#cloud-providers-and-regions) for a full list of options for AWS, Azure, and GCP.
- `basic` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Basic Kafka cluster.
- `standard` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Standard Kafka cluster.
- `dedicated` - (Optional Configuration Block) The configuration of the Dedicated Kafka cluster. It supports the following:
    - `cku` - (Required Number) The number of Confluent Kafka Units (CKUs) for Dedicated cluster types. The minimum number of CKUs for `SINGLE_ZONE` dedicated clusters is `1` whereas `MULTI_ZONE` dedicated clusters must have more than `2` CKUs.

-> **Note:** At least one from the `basic`, `standard`, and `dedicated` configuration blocks must be specified.

!> **Warning:** You can only upgrade clusters from `basic` to `standard`.

-> **Note:** Currently, provisioning of a Dedicated Kafka cluster takes around 25 minutes on average but might take up to 24 hours. If you can't wait for the `terraform apply` step to finish, you can exit it and import the cluster by using the `terraform import` command once it has been provisioned. When the cluster is provisioned, you will receive an email notification, and you can also follow updates on the Target Environment web page of the Confluent Cloud website. 

- `environment` (Required Configuration Block) supports the following:
    - `id` - (Required String) The ID of the Environment that the Kafka cluster belongs to, for example, `env-abc123`.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the preceding arguments, the following attributes are exported:

- `id` - (String) The ID of the Kafka cluster (e.g., `lkc-abc123`).
- `api_version` - (String) An API Version of the schema version of the Kafka cluster, for example, `cmk/v2`.
- `kind` - (String) A kind of the Kafka cluster, for example, `Cluster`.
- `bootstrap_endpoint` - (String) The bootstrap endpoint used by Kafka clients to connect to the Kafka cluster. (e.g., `pkc-00000.us-central1.gcp.confluent.cloud:9092`).
- `http_endpoint` - (String) The REST endpoint of the Kafka cluster (e.g., `https://pkc-00000.us-central1.gcp.confluent.cloud:443`).

## Import

Kafka clusters can be imported using Environment ID and Kafka cluster ID, in the format `<Environment ID>/<Kafka cluster ID>`, e.g.

```
$ terraform import confluentcloud_kafka_cluster.my_kafka env-abc123/lkc-abc123
```
